#summary how to build the JME3 Utilities Package

== JMonkeyEngine (JME3) Software Development Kit (SDK) ==

 * Download the jMonkeyEngine SDK from http://hub.jmonkeyengine.org/downloads
 * Install the SDK, which includes:
   * the engine itself, 
   * an integrated development environment (IDE) based on !NetBeans, and
   * the Blender 3D application.

== Source files ==

Check out the JME3 Utilities Package source files using Subversion:
  * Open the Checkout wizard in the IDE:
    * Menu bar -> "Team" -> "Subversion" -> "Checkout..."
  * For "Repository URL:" specify "https://jme3-utilities.googlecode.com/svn" (without the quotes).
  * Clear the "User:" and "Password:" text boxes.
  * Click on the "Next >" button.
  * For "Repository Folder(s):" specify "trunk" (without the quotes).
  * For "Local Folder:" specify a writable folder on a local filesystem.
  * Make sure the "Skip trunk" box is checked.
  * Make sure the "Scan for !NetBeans Projects after Checkout" box is checked.
  * Click on the "Finish" button.
  * When asked whether to open the project, click the "Open Project" button.
  * There will be problems due to missing JAR files.  Do not attempt to resolve them yet.

== External JAR files ==

 * Download the Guava library JAR file from "https://code.google.com/p/guava-libraries" to the "jars" folder of the new project.
 * Download the JCommander JAR file from "http://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.beust/jcommander" to the "jars" folder of the new project.

== Project configuration ==

 * Add downloaded JARs to the project:
   * Open the project's properties in the IDE:
     * Right-click on the new project (not its assets) in the "Projects" window.
     * Select "Properties".
   * Under "Categories:" select "Libraries".
   * Click on the "OK" button.